Friends here we're extending our boater
three collections concept of resource upset to start,
stop, and terminate your required instances at a single shorten.
Now let me open my subline text and let me
copy some of the steps from our previous script.
So now here I'm displaying the available submitted on our collections object c.
These are the available submitters on your collection upset.
And among all these already we discussed about some of them.
They are like all limit and filter.
And here let me remedies all filter limit anyway,
iterate is just a iterator object.
It will create an iterator object.
It is exactly Post.all operation.
Now, my requirement is I want to start all my instances at a time.
Then let me show you how we can do it.
No, let me comment this line.
Just I'm writing some print statement.
Starting all instances.
Then very simple.
Just take your EC2 collections object, instances collections object.
Then on that just passed.
And a submitted called I submitted called start.
That's it.
So once it is done,
then you are all instances or append running.
Now let me save it.
Before that, let me open my database console,
see that all my incentives or in stop and state.
Now let me run your script and see the output.
Starting all instances.
Now you are all instance startup and running,
but verify it. For on your console.
It is. They are in still in pending status.
So after giving start action,
if we wait some time until you were instances reach it or running status.
Once it is reached, then you can print your required information.
You are all instances are up and running.
That means here you have to add a waiter C. In our previous views,
we added weight AS,
I mean, we discussed about waders.
Let me open waiters script.
And it is better to use always client waiters.
So that's why I'm going to create a client object.
First.
You can create your client object.
So now here itself I am creating my client object.
Then I'm creating waiter.
So after starting your instance,
or you can create anywhere you are waiter.
So meanwhile, let me stop my instances of course you can also apply
your waiters for to get your instance data stuff.
But I'm here, I'm working with just to get running status.
So instance running.
Now let me copy you're on more step.
Waiter dot Wait, wait.
You were Instance ID.
So here you have to provide all your instance IDs,
then you have to collect them one by one.
So this is the option. After giving start.
Here you have to provide all your available instance IDs.
Then only this waiter will wait to get all your instances happened, Ernie status.
So now what we have to do 0s before applying your waiters concert.
First, you have to collect your all EC2 instances ID.
Let me collect them.
For each instance in
EC2 Console resource object dot collection object, instances dot all.
Then let me print it for each instance dot
ID so that you are going to get all your EC2 instances object,
sorry, AWS console, client object.
What is the problem?
Okay, AWS management console.
Now you're getting all your instance ID.
Let me create a list.
So required or all instance instances ID equals to m taking a list and one by one,
I'm appending to this list.
So simply, instead of printing,
what I'm doing is dot append,
I'm creating a list which consists of all instance IDs.
Now let me copy this variable and just provide it here. This is a list, right?
Already our variable is also least left by directly and providing that variable.
Now just a comment,
un-comment this. Now, be clear.
Now all our instance starting stopper status.
So we are giving start action to start all our instances.
Now, before going to start all you were
instances you are collecting all your incense IDs because to create a waiter,
now I created a waiter from client object.
And for that waiter,
I have given a list of instances ID.
That's, you know, let me save it and run it.
So starting all instances,
go here and refresh you.
Now they are in pending status.
Once they are entering into running status,
then you are skipped exit because your waiter will come out from your waiting station.
So wait, just wait for that and see the output.
You are, all instances are up and running.
Now.
You see that all interests are up and running.
Now, I have a small requirement.
My requirement is I want to start or stop or terminate only some required instances.
So before going to do that,
let me use some tags here.
Suppose this is non-profits are worth.
And this is, let say products or work.
And this is also in non-profit server.
Just assume that now my requirement is I want to start or stop only non-poor servers.
I will do one thing first, I will stop them anyway.
You can also work with even
I'll stop option on a stock option,
you can implement any type of script, right?
But just I'm proceeding because already we have same steps,
required steps with start.
Now my requirement is I want to start only non-personal Vs.
Suppose if I go within this way, simply EC2,
Console resource object dot instances collection object dot star.
It will try to start all the integers which are there here.
And let me verify Is there any option to start only required instances with this?
Let me open your documentation and see
that you don't have any option here to provide your required EC2 instances,
then how we can do it.
So for that, if you go with the client,
if you go with the client inclined,
you can provide the required incentives,
IDs to start or stop or turn Medieval instances just to go down somewhere,
you will find your required option.
So as I've no, I need suppose start instances,
just click on that and open it.
And see that here we have an option called where it
is that we reopen
can start instances here.
You can probably instance IDs as a list.
Now, here I want to provide,
suppose if I take this client,
start starting stances I had to poverty incense cities.
Now here I have to provide the instances ids related with the non-personal.
Worse, then how to collect your nonprofit service first.
Now, let me implement a script for that.
So let me come in this previous court.
So guys, now my requirement is I want to start
only nonpartisan was so before going to start you on nonprofits or worse,
tried to collect your non-profit servers instance IDs.
So what I'm doing is non-profits or we're servers,
ID equals two and taking Mt,
then I'm going to create a filter.
So you know, we have, we already filter.
Let me copy it where it is.
Filter.
Now here you need to create a filter with a small change.
Now, this tag name,
so tag colon name for remaining dirty hunger,
poverty on him whenever he felt working on tags,
you have to take tag colon name,
and then what is your value?
So I want to walk with non-profit rate.
So non-protein, these non underscore part,
let me write non underscore product.
Now let me try to use your collection object on the word in-situ
resource object C for each instance in
your institute resource console dot instancing dot filter.
Then apply your filter scores to your phone.
That's it.
But let me try to print them.
Each instance dot id first after the output.
What happened? Okay?
Instances. Fine.
Now you are getting two instances.
There are 6F and C4. See that?
Non port C4 is also non-product.
I mean, now we are able to get
your required non-profits animals by using fried or concept.
Now let me add this,
append it to a list of servers IDs,
dot append. That's it.
Now here, I'm trying to collect
my non-profit servers using collection concept of your resource object.
But same thing you can also get by using your client also.
But there, there is no collections concept,
but you can apply fetus directly for your work method which is there on your client.
Let me show you that. So non ports are worse IDs.
So let me differentiate output.
So you can go to any, anyone of that.
Now what I am saying is whatever the output you are getting
that output you can also get from your client object.
So already how client object, right?
C, Let me do that.
One thing. Describe instances option is there with your client.
If you remember that in the reservations,
if you take in reservations,
you are going to get not take that as
a list and take one by one for each item in.
But here you need to do a number of steps.
Don't say nothing is that.
So if I print each item post-order output what you are getting.
Each item is also a dictionary in that if you take instances,
that is your required information,
that's why what I am doing is simply and that incentives,
they'll just see that.
Now this is a list. Again, how to take one more for loop.
But if you go with your resource,
you don't need to go with two times a for loop.
So for each instance in newer, each item,
let me print it for each instance dot somewhere you will get your instance ID.
Image id.
Yeah, here you how Instance ID?
That's it.
Now let me save it and run it.
See the output you are getting three instances,
but I need only,
I need only non-profit instances,
then you can apply this filter here.
Same concept, whatever he has syntax here,
full disk that filters you can apply here as an argument that's nothing is there.
See that? Now? Let me come in here.
If you want to go with your resource object,
you can go or else even it can go with the one.
You weren't client object.
Let me take but the thing is.
If you want to start,
your particular instance is required in concert,
then there is no option. You are resource.
That's why we are working with the client.
So in case if you are getting confusion,
always tried to work with the client only, no problem.
Okay, now let me print you are non-profit instance IDs.
Observe the output.
What happened if one is not defined?
Yeah, I think we commentary, right?
And now we are getting our required non-point instance cities.
Now in your client itself.
Yeah, one more thing I wanted to show you and your client to describe
instances there you can apply describe tags,
each and every option differently is there with your plane.
If you are getting confusion with resource on client,
always try to work with client only see that anywhere.
Describe instances we have fetus that filters we apply now.
That fine. Now client.read starting stances than intensive IDs as a list.
Now what I will do is I will copy this.
Come here.
Now, let me try to take your EC2 client dot start instances.
And here you can provide your instances IDs already.
How are you or incidence rate is as a list.
So you have to provide as a list.
That list is there already with this variable that just provide that.
That's a, anyway, you need waiters right already how beta's with respect to client.
So always try to use waiters with respect to client only.
That is the best practice.
Waiters then beta dot weight instances IDs.
So instance IDs are non-profits or we're id.
So here just I am writing for our understanding purpose,
print starting
instances with IDs off.
So whatever the non-protein since IDs are there now after these,
just try to write print.
You were in non-profit instances or running.
Now, see your console ones.
Now all infants are in stopper status,
but we are trying to start non-point instances only.
No, let me run this.
It is taking some time.
You have to wait for that.
And friends One more thing.
See sometimes you are waiter may not
work to reach your insight as to running status because claimed waiter wait,
wait maximum ten minutes in case you,
for instances taking more than ten meters,
then definitely it will get it will throw an exception.
So how to handle exceptions?
We'll discuss. As of now,
we are fine with ten minutes.
That's why I'm using this ten minutes of time.
Now go to your console and refresh it.
See that now only non-personal sought running, that's it.
That's why your script has been exited.
So in this way,
you can apply your remaining options on anywhere collections.
So these are the submitters on your collections, right?
So if you want to monitor unmonitored and don't worry about pay sizes
and pages will discuss these two concepts in our paginated concert.
So if you're under create tags, we can create tags.
That's it.
So create tax is there with your resource as well as claimed it can go anyone of that.
Anyway, while implementing over different types of scripts,
we will see different options so that you will be good
with all these submitters of your collections.
Okay, thank you.